README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# `wuerfel`

**Diceware password generator cli based on eff password lists.**

[![Crates.io Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wuerfel)](https://crates.io/crates/wuerfel)
[![lib.rs link](https://badgen.net/badge/lib.rs/lib.rs/purple?label)](https://lib.rs/crates/wuerfel)
[![GitHub License](https://badgen.net/github/license/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs)](https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![deps.rs](https://deps.rs/crate/wuerfel/latest/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/crate/wuerfel/)

</div>

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/OM6wZiuAYnRkPMLN0BltXBiig.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/OM6wZiuAYnRkPMLN0BltXBiig)

## Installation

### [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/) (Windows)

```sh
scoop bucket add stupid-bucket https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/stupid-bucket
scoop install stupid-bucket/wuerfel
```


### [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (MacOS/Linux)

```sh
brew install wyvernixtl/tap2/wuerfel
```


### [NPM](https://nodejs.org/en) (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

> [!NOTE]
> An install script is used that removes temporary directories.
> Thus this method is not compatible with restrictive environments (pnpm/deno).

```sh
npm install -g @wyvernixtl-rs/wuerfel
```


### Prebuilts (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

* Installer (Windows)
* Install Scripts (Windows/Linux/MacOS)
* Portable Releases

are available on the [**release page**](https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs/releases).


### [Binstall](https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall) (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

```sh
cargo binstall -y wuerfel
```


### From Source

Via [Cargo](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install):

```sh
cargo install wuerfel
```


## Usage

By default a password with at least 90 bits of entropy is generated:

```sh
wuerfel
# word count: 9
# entropy: 93.1 bits
# emu rerun film donor drab ride coat ruby grasp
```
To generate a stronger password you may use either the `--count` or the `--entropy` options:

```sh
wuerfel --count 12
wuerfel -c 12
# word count: 12
# entropy: 124.1 bits
# case walk tummy blink open shore thaw curl nutty tilt tall found
```
```sh
wuerfel --entropy 256
wuerfel -e 256
# word count: 25
# entropy: 258.5 bits
# self fried sled humid quilt fancy baker dad spend hers strut spoof shiny shirt stoop slush alarm brick sway plot lying cub acorn musky aroma
```

To copy the password to your clipboard, instead of printing it to the terminal, use the `--cb` flag:

```sh
wuerfel --cb
# word count: 9
# entropy: 93.1 bits
# clipboard is going to be deleted in 10s
# clipboard cleared!
```

Three wordlists are included:
* EFF Short Wordlist (default)
* EFF Long Wordlist
* EFF Short Memorable Wordlist 

```sh
wuerfel -l short
wuerfel -l long
wuerfel -l memorable
```
I recommend at least 110 bits of entropy for encryption purposes
and at least 80 bits of entropy for authentication purposes.

More is better!


## Security

* The wordlists stem from EFF and are unaltered. They are parsed at compile time and embedded into the program.
* The random number generator is seeded by the operating system.
* The generated password is stored in a locked memory location on windows and unix and encrypted in memory on windows.
* The wordlists are cleared after use.
* All allocations are zeroized.

Commit message:

docs: added tip regarding shell completion support of homebrew and made the download button nicer

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# `wuerfel`

**Diceware password generator cli based on eff password lists.**

[![Crates.io Version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/wuerfel)](https://crates.io/crates/wuerfel)
[![lib.rs link](https://badgen.net/badge/lib.rs/lib.rs/purple?label)](https://lib.rs/crates/wuerfel)
[![GitHub License](https://badgen.net/github/license/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs)](https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![deps.rs](https://deps.rs/crate/wuerfel/latest/status.svg)](https://deps.rs/crate/wuerfel/)

</div>

[![asciicast](https://asciinema.org/a/OM6wZiuAYnRkPMLN0BltXBiig.svg)](https://asciinema.org/a/OM6wZiuAYnRkPMLN0BltXBiig)

## Installation

### [Scoop](https://scoop.sh/) (Windows)

```sh
scoop bucket add stupid-bucket https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/stupid-bucket
scoop install stupid-bucket/wuerfel
```


### [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) (MacOS/Linux)

> [!TIP]
> Shell completions are included! See the [Homebrew Documentation](https://docs.brew.sh/Shell-Completion) on how to activate them.

```sh
brew install wyvernixtl/tap2/wuerfel
```


### [NPM](https://nodejs.org/en) (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

> [!NOTE]
> An install script is used that removes temporary directories.
> Thus this method is not compatible with restrictive environments (pnpm/deno).

```sh
npm install -g @wyvernixtl-rs/wuerfel
```


### Prebuilts (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

[![Download for Windows](https://img.shields.io/badge/Download-Windows-0078D6?style=for-the-badge&logo=windows&logoColor=white) ![Download for macOS](https://img.shields.io/badge/Download-macOS-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=apple&logoColor=white) ![Download for Linux](https://img.shields.io/badge/Download-Linux-FCC624?style=for-the-badge&logo=linux&logoColor=black)](https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs/releases/latest)

are available on the [**release page**](https://github.com/WyvernIXTL/wuerfel-rs/releases).


### [Binstall](https://github.com/cargo-bins/cargo-binstall) (Windows/Linux/MacOS)

```sh
cargo binstall -y wuerfel
```


### From Source

Via [Cargo](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install):

```sh
cargo install wuerfel
```


## Usage

By default a password with at least 90 bits of entropy is generated:

```sh
wuerfel
# word count: 9
# entropy: 93.1 bits
# emu rerun film donor drab ride coat ruby grasp
```
To generate a stronger password you may use either the `--count` or the `--entropy` options:

```sh
wuerfel --count 12
wuerfel -c 12
# word count: 12
# entropy: 124.1 bits
# case walk tummy blink open shore thaw curl nutty tilt tall found
```
```sh
wuerfel --entropy 256
wuerfel -e 256
# word count: 25
# entropy: 258.5 bits
# self fried sled humid quilt fancy baker dad spend hers strut spoof shiny shirt stoop slush alarm brick sway plot lying cub acorn musky aroma
```

To copy the password to your clipboard, instead of printing it to the terminal, use the `--cb` flag:

```sh
wuerfel --cb
# word count: 9
# entropy: 93.1 bits
# clipboard is going to be deleted in 10s
# clipboard cleared!
```

Three wordlists are included:
* EFF Short Wordlist (default)
* EFF Long Wordlist
* EFF Short Memorable Wordlist 

```sh
wuerfel -l short
wuerfel -l long
wuerfel -l memorable
```
I recommend at least 110 bits of entropy for encryption purposes
and at least 80 bits of entropy for authentication purposes.

More is better!


## Security

* The wordlists stem from EFF and are unaltered. They are parsed at compile time and embedded into the program.
* The random number generator is seeded by the operating system.
* The generated password is stored in a locked memory location on windows and unix and encrypted in memory on windows.
* The wordlists are cleared after use.
* All allocations are zeroized.
